Preprocessing Checklist

Before experimenting with various data mining techniques, you should do some exploratory analysis
and pre-processing. Here are some general guidelines; not everything is necessarily applicable to all
datasets, and further methods may also be useful.

- Is the full dataset relevant and necessary? Remove instances that seem erroneous or
redundant. If the dataset is too large to be analysed with your tools, you can work with a
smaller sample. (This can be particularly useful for the accelerometer dataset that is really
large.)

  There are only 9120 observations so there is no need to take a sample
  The only observations that could be considered "erroneous" would be if the series for
  one particular sample does not match the same time series pattern as that of the same
  activity. We would argue that it is perhaps more important to retain this variance
  for predictive purposes.

- If you are working on a classification problem, and the representation of the different
classes is highly imbalanced, you may want to resample the data to represent the classes
more equally.

  The target classes are perfectly distributed as a result of the experiment design.

- Are there any missing values? (How they are shown may vary from dataset to dataset.) You
have to decide how you interpret missing values and handle them accordingly.

  No missingness for any sensor readings.

- Is the format of each attribute (nominal or numeric) appropriate to its contextual meaning?
Is the range of the numeric attributes appropriate? Carry out conversions and
normalizations as appropriate.

  All attributes are numeric.
  
  Currently no normalisation/scaling being performed (other than PCA).
  Perhaps we should normalise values across each of the three sensor types?
  eg. the range of values for accelerometers is very different to mag and gyro

- Are there any obvious outliers? Instances with values very different from the typical range
might represent input errors – is there evidence for that in the data?

  No

- Are there any apparently irrelevant attributes that should be removed?

  No. We are not including "participant id" as a training feature.

- Does it make sense to work with a smaller set of attributes?

  Yes, the models will make use of feature extraction from the time-series followed
  by further PCA dimension-reduction.

In the report, describe your dataset – what types of attributes it has, the value ranges, interesting
characteristics, relevant features, etc. Your report should describe all preprocessing steps you
performed, with justification of the decisions you made. You can carry out the preprocessing steps in
R or otherwise.

  See Exploratory Analysis and Preprocessing sections.



